---
layout: post
title: Random Hacks of Kindness (RHOK) - Note this session will run on *Thursday from 2-4pm*
author: Arna Karick
time: 2-4 PM
location: AMDC 206
category: posts
tags: visualisation
---

## Where & When

Advanced Manufacturing and Design Centre - Room 206. Thursday 21st May from 2-4pm.

## Arna Karick

Arna is Swinburne’s e-Research Consultant, the organiser of Swinburne Hacker Within, and an astronomer by trade. She is also helping to organise RHoK Melbourne's Winter Hackathon which will take place at Swinburne on Saturday and Sunday the 30th & 31st May. A full list of RHoK events can be found<a href="http://www.rhokaustralia.org/melbourne-events/"> here</a>.

## About Random Hacks of Kindness

<a href="http://www.rhokaustralia.org">Random Hacks</a> of Kindness (RHoK) Australia is a part of a global community of technologists and changemakers who are 'hacking for good'. Twice a year, RHOK runs hackathons that bring together volunteer developers and tech-savvy do-gooders to work with charities, community groups and social enterprises. Australia has one of the most vibrant and engaged RHoK communities in the world, and RHOK Australia is the largest and longest running civic hackathon. RHOK offers ongoing support during the year to make sure that solutions are deployed and used by the wider community.

## General Coding and Project Work

The rest of the session will be general coding. Feel free to use this time to work on a new project, go through some of the work we did at the Python Software Carpentry workshop, or brush up your coding skills by working through an online course. We recommend Codecademy, Khan Academy and Coursera to begin with. Examples of projects created by SHW participants can be found here.
## Attended by?

This event hasn't occured yet.

