---
layout: post
title: General coding session - Note this will run on *Thursday*
author: 
time: 1-3 PM
location: AMDC 206
category: upcoming
tags: cartodb timelinejs visualisation
---

## Where & When?

Advanced Manufacturing and Design Centre - Room 206. Thursday 23rd April from 1-3pm.<br>
<b>Note the change to Thursday (this week only)</b>

## Coding session

In the previous session we discussed how Swinburne Hacker Within (SHW) will work, what we want to get out of it, and went through a number of examples of what sort of projects and visualisations people could create. We talked a lot (!!), but I really appreciated your thoughts. During the session Samara sneakily managed to create her first TimelineJS visualisation, a BioWare Studio Timeline.

This week we'll hit the ground running, following the normal SHW format. For those who want to start working on a TimelineJS visualisation or a CartoDB map, see below. Otherwise bring your data, project, idea and start hacking.

As for me, I'll be figuring out how to make an interactive plot using D3js that looks something like this: <a href="http://datamusing.info/blog/2014/09/03/the-case-for-interactive-visualizations-in-astrophysics/"> Interactive visualizations in astrophysics - plot 1</a>. Happy to help others where I can.

See you then - Arna

## What we worked on

Data visualisation seemed to be the topic of the day with an interest in Javascript and D3js. Iman led a really nice discussion about the semiology of graphics and how data should be visualised and how these are percieved by others.  There is book called the<a href="http://www.amazon.com/Semiology-Graphics-Diagrams-Networks-Maps/dp/1589482611"> Semiology of Graphics</a> which is available at the Swinburne University Library (ironically this copy is in black and white).  He also showed us some great blogs which I've added to the growing <a  href="http://thehackerwithin.github.io/swinburne/links.html"> list of links</a>




## Attended by 

<ul>
<li>Iman Avazpour, Researcher (Data Visualisation - SUCCESS)</li>
<li>Elodie Thilliez, PhD student (Astro - CAS)</li>
<li>Arna Karick, e-Research Consultant/Astro (Swinburne Research)</li>
<li>Pierluigi Cerulo, PhD student (Astro: high-z clusters, CAS)</li>
</ul>


## Getting started with CartoDB 

<a href="http://cartodb.com">CartoDB</a>

1. Create a free account for <a href="http://cartodb.com/industries/education-and-research/#"> Education and Research</a><br>
2. Upload a .xlsx or .csv file (or create one within the web application) and start mapping.

## Getting started with TimelineJS

<a href="http://timeline.knightlab.com">TimelineJS</a> 

1. Follow the instructions on the website - no need to create an account
2. Download the Google spreadsheet template and use this to create your own data spreadsheet
3. Make sure your Google spreadsheet is public
4. Copy the spreadsheet link into the TimelineJS generator

