---
layout: post
title: Visualisation using D3js Data-Driven Documents (Javascript library)
author: Samara Neilson
time: 1-3 PM
location: AMDC 206
category: posts
tags: visualisation
---

## Where & When

Advanced Manufacturing and Design Centre - Room 206. Wednesday 29th April from 1-3pm.

## Samara Neilson

Samara is Swinburne Research's Data Coordinator and co-developer of the SR Analytics and ERA system for Swinburne Research. Both of these incorporate D3js.org data visualisations of information such as publication data, research grants and income etc. 

## Visualisation using D3js Data-Driven Documents 

Samara will lead an introductory tutorial on using D3js.org for data visualisation. This will include a short into to Javascript. Hopefully by the end of the session everyone will have created two D3js visualisations.

## About D3js

<a href="http://d3js.org">D3.js</a> is a JavaScript library for manipulating documents based on data. D3 helps you bring data to life using HTML, SVG, and CSS. D3’s emphasis on web standards gives you the full capabilities of modern browsers without tying yourself to a proprietary framework, combining powerful visualization components and a data-driven approach to DOM manipulation. 

The trickiest bit is getting your data in a format that works for D3js.org and learning a bit of Javascript. If you want to get started, Mike Bostock - the creator of D3js - has some  <a href="http://bl.ocks.org/mbostock">examples</a> you can work through. Samara suggests starting with bar charts.

Also take a look at this blog post on <a href="http://www.jeromecukier.net/blog/2012/,05/28/manipulating-data-like-a-boss-with-d3/"> Manipulating data like a boss with d3</a>, and this one on <a href="http://bost.ocks.org/mike/selection/">How Selections Work</a>.

## What we worked on

Samara put together a really great website for this session: <a href="http://evilangelpixie.github.io/d3js/"> http://evilangelpixie.github.io/d3js/</a>. Incidentally this was created using GitHub, poole and Jekyll. We'll show you how to do this next week. She talked a little bit about the history of D3js and how the D3 code is structured. Her tutorial also includes the basis of what you need to know to get started and where you're likely to face hurdles. We then played with code for a D3js Bar Chart using CodePen; a browser based playground with which to experiment and helpfully separates the code into it's three component elements, the HTML, the CSS and the JavaScript.

It was also really great to have Nathan Faggian participate from  Microsoft. Nathan started out in academia (Computer Science) at Monash and has since worked at the Florey Neuroscience Institute and the Bureau of Meteorology.  You can check out his career path on <a href="https://au.linkedin.com/in/nfaggian">LinkedIn</a> and follow him on Twitter: <a href="https://twitter.com/nfaggian">@nfaggian</a>


## Attended by

<ul>
<li>Arna Karick, e-Research Consultant/Astro (Swinburne Research)</li>
<li>Samara Neilson, Research Data Coordinator (Swinburne Research)</li>
<li>Iman Avazpour, Researcher (Data Visualisation - SUCCESS)</li>
<li>Elodie Thilliez, PhD student (Astro - CAS)</li>
<li>Arna Karick, e-Research Consultant/Astro (Swinburne Research)</li>
<li>Amanda Lawrence, Managing Editor (Australian Policy Online)</li>
<li>Emilie Johnson, Liason librarian (Swinburne Library)</li>
<li>Dany Vohl, PhD student (Astro - CAS)</li>
<li>Jonathon Kua, PhD Student (Centre for Advanced Internet Architectures - CAIA)</li>
<li>Djuro Mirkovic, PhD Student (Centre for Advanced Internet Architectures - CAIA)</li>
<li>Antonio Bibiano, PhD student (Astro - CAS)</li>
<li>Neale Yates, Research Performance Analyst and Strategist (Swinburne Research)</li>
<li>Nicola Pastorello, PhD student (Astro - CAS)</li>
<li>Nathan Faggian, Data/Computational Scientist (Microsoft Research - External visitor)</li>
<li>Stephen Petrie, Data Scientist (Centre for Transformative Innovation - CTI)</li>
</ul>


