---
layout: post
title: CartoDB - Maps for the web made easy
author: Arna Karick
time: 1:30 - 3 PM
location: AMDC 206
category: upcoming
tags: visualisation
---

## Where & When

Advanced Manufacturing and Design Centre - Room 206. Wednesday 27th May from 1:30 - 3pm.

## Arna Karick
Arna is Swinburne’s e-Research Consultant, the organiser of Swinburne Hacker Within, and an astronomer by trade. Twitter: @drarnakarick

##About CartoDB 

[CartoDB](https://cartodb.com) is essentially a map building web application. It’s free for the academic community and really easy to set up. You just need to be able to manipulate spreadsheets and have a basic understanding of geocoding. CartoDB allows you to put your data on top of rich base layers. Use Mapbox or any other basemap provider. You can even create maps without a background. CartoDB integrates with all major mapping and visualization engines through its mapping library, CartoDB.js. Check out the [CartoDB Map Gallery](https://cartodb.com/gallery/) for ideas. You a can also fork the [CartoDB Javascript library](https://github.com/CartoDB/cartodb.js/) from GitHub to create your own maps from scratch.

**Example:** This [interactive map of optical and radio telescopes](http://drarnakarick.cartodb.com/viz/9eefe1ba-179b-11e4-af10-0e10bcd91c2b/public_map?title=true&description=true&search=false&shareable=true&cartodb_logo=true&layer_selector=false&legends=true&scrollwheel=true&fullscreen=true&sublayer_options=1&sql=&zoom=2&center_lat=25.77189348043032&center_lon=0) around the world took an afternoon to set up. It’s still a work in progress. I update it whenever I need to take a mental break from work. Most of the data was taken from, dare I say it, Wikipedia.

## Copyright issues around data and visualisations.

Robin Wright from the Copyright office will also be popping in to discuss issues about open access data and options such as Creative Commons for making visualisations available online. Participants are welcome to join in this informal discussion.

